        Defence Security Principles Framework (DSPF) Temporary Access to Classified Information and Assets Control Owner1. The Assistant Secretary Security Policy and Services (AS SPS) is the owner for this Enterprise-wide Control.Control Implementer2. AS SPS has formally designated Assistant Secretary ICT Security (ASICTS) in the Chief Information Officer Group (CIOG) as the Control Implementer for ICT systems access for SIGNIFICANT and HIGH risk. ASICTS will manage all approvals for temporary access to ICT systems in accordance with the Escalation Thresholds below.Escalation Thresholds3. The AS SPS has set the following general thresholds for risks managed against this DSPF Control and the related DSPF Principle and Expected Outcomes.Risk RatingResponsibilityLowDefence personnel in consultation with their Supervisor, Commander or ManagerModerateEL2/O-6 or equivalent in relevant Group/ServiceSignificantAS SPSASICTS for ICT systems accessHighDefence Security Committee (DSC) – through AS SPS ASICTS for ICT systems accessExtremeDSC through AS SPSControl 41.1	PAGE 1
ControlsTemporary Access4. Temporary access allows limited, supervised access to specific security classified information and assets to meet an operational or business need. Commanders and Managers are to supervise and monitor the classified information and assets accessed under these arrangements.5. Temporary access is to be strictly confined to the specific classified information or assets required to meet the operational or business need. An inability to accurately identify and record the specific classified documents, files or assets that will be accessed not only limits the ability to conduct a risk assessment but suggests that unrestricted access is required and hence the use of Temporary access provisions is inappropriate. In these circumstances, a clearance should be sought for ongoing access.6. Temporary access is not a security clearance and cannot be used in lieu of a security clearance to provide assurance for reasons other than access to specific classified assets (information or physical).Temporary Access, Caveats, DLM and Need-to-Know7. Access to information requires that a person has a ‘need-to-know’ and the appropriate security clearance. Temporary access provisions only address security clearance requirements, they do not alter a person’s need-to-know.Control 41.1	PAGE 2
8. The approval of Temporary access cannot alter the effect of caveats. Approved Temporary access does not grant access that would otherwise be limited by caveats.Types of Temporary Access9. There are two types of Temporary access ‘Short Term’ and ‘Provisional’ for managing limited access to classified information and resources. Each type of access encompasses specific limitations and prerequisites. See Australian Government Personnel Security Protocol.Requirements and Constraints on Temporary Access10. Temporary access will only be approved when there is no other current clearance holder available that can carry out the duties required. If a current clearance holder is available but cannot carry out the duties, this will be documented in the risk assessment and be considered by the approving authority. See Australian Government Personnel Security Protocol.11. In addition to limitations applied within the Australian Government Personnel Security Protocol, Temporary access:a. is not to be approved:(1) to permit access to any material classified TS unless the person requiring the access holds an Australian Government Negative Vetting Level 1 clearance;(2) retrospectively to avoid managing a security incident resulting from unauthorised or incidental access to classified material; or(3) if the clearance holder has been subject to an adverse security clearance decision at the level of the requested Temporary access, or is currently under review for cause (e.g., clearance downgraded due to security concerns, or higher level clearance previously denied on security grounds.)Control 41.1	PAGE 3
b. Temporary access is only to be approved:(1) by Defence Personnel. Defence industry cannot approve Temporary access on behalf of the Australian Government; and(2) if the scope of the approved information access can be defined and the ownership of the information is understood.12. Temporary access is only available to persons who either currently hold, or are eligible to be considered for an Australian Government security clearance.13. Temporary access is not available to foreign nationals who hold a foreign government security clearance that is recognised through a Security of Information Agreement/Arrangement (SIA).14. If a foreign national has been granted an Australian Government security clearance on the basis of successfully approved eligibility waivers, they may be considered for Temporary access if required (this does not include Temporary access to Top Secret (TS) information.)ICT Systems Access15. The approval of Temporary access does not permit unrestricted access to Defence ICT networks. If Temporary access is required to ICT resources, Information Security Manual (ISM) control 0441 requires that the account holder’s access is either restricted to only the information that is required for the specified duties, or is continually supervised by another appropriately cleared system user.16. Normal user access on systems such as the Defence Restricted Network (DRN) and Defence Secret Network (DSN) grant access to very large volumes of information on web sites and shared drives, the risk of granting access to this material is accepted for those with a security clearance at the required level but is considered too great for those that have not completed the security clearance process.17. ASICTS in CIOG is the Control Implementer for ICT systems access requests involving SIGNIFICANT and HIGH risk. Therefore, requests for access involving these risk thresholds can be made to tor approval.a.	CIOG mandates that if unrestricted ICT access is required, approval is to be processed as a minimum of SIGNIFICANT risk for the DRN and as a minimum of HIGH risk for the DSN, or similarly classified networks, before access is granted.Control 41.1	PAGE 4
Members of Parliament (Staff) Act 1984 (MOPS Act) Staff18. For information regarding the granting of Temporary access to MOPS Act staff, see Australian Government Personnel Security Protocol, ‘Temporary Access for MOPS Act staff’.19. The following table identifies the approving authorities for Temporary access.Table 1: Authority to Approve Temporary AccessAccess ToType of Temporary AccessShort TermProvisionalInformation requiring a PV as a prerequisite to accessUnavailableUnavailableCaveat / CODEWORD / Compartmented material of any classificationUnavailableUnavailableTOP SECRET excluding CODEWORD (refer Note 1)Group Head, Service Chief or approved delegate in consultation with AGSVAMinimum of SES Band 1/07 (or approved delegate) in consultation with AGSVASECRET and below excluding CODEWORDCommander, Manager or Contract Manager in consultation with AGSVASADFO (only for SAFEBASE related emergencies)Senior Australian Defence Force Officer (SADFO) (only for SAFEBASE related emergencies)Note 1:TOP SECRET excluding Caveat, CODEWORD and Compartment -Note 1: Clearance subjects are to hold an Australian Government security clearance at minimum of Negative Vetting Level 1 for access to this level of material under Temporary access arrangements. (for MOPS Act staff, see Australian Government Personnel Security Protocol ‘Temporary Access for MOPS Act staff’)Processing Temporary Access Requests20. The area approving Temporary access will assess the risks associated with doing so, specify risk monitoring requirements and identify the responsible appointment. The assessment of risk is to be in accordance with PSPF Personnel Security Guidelines – Agency personnel security responsibilities: Temporary access risk assessments.Control 41.1	PAGE 5
21. The Commander or Manager (or their delegate) of the area seeking Temporary access for an employee are to:a. prior to processing a request for Temporary access, consult with AGSVA (and the Department of Finance in relation to MOPS Act staff) to determine if an applicant for Temporary access has any pre-existing clearance conditions or restrictions recorded on their Personnel Security File that would prevent Temporary access from being approved. This consultation should be initiated through the security officer of the requesting area;b. consult with other areas in Defence and/or other agencies if the Temporary access will result in access to their information;c. prepare and staff a business case requesting Temporary access from the appropriate authority (refer Table 1 – Authority to Approve Temporary Access);d. make the decision to deny or approve requests for Temporary access for e. which they are the nominated delegate;e. formalise the arrangement in writing with the applicant, including advising the applicant of the information that can be accessed under these arrangements and their responsibilities with regard to confidentiality and the protection of the information;f. record the details of access in the security register;g. ensure ongoing monitoring of approved Temporary access to ensure that it is strictly confined to the identified information and assets essential to the operational and business need for which the access was approved;h. report any inappropriate or unauthorised access as a security incident in accordance with DSPF Principle 77 – Security Incidents and Investigations; andi. review the duties and responsibilities of the position and if required:(1) upgrade the position’s security clearance requirement; and(2) initiate a security clearance upgrade for the individual.22. If the steps in the above paragraphs cannot be performed due to the urgent and immediate requirement to grant access in an emergency situation these steps are to be undertaken as soon as is practical following the granting of access.Control 41.1	PAGE 6
Temporary Access Denied23. Temporary access decisions are not final security clearance decisions as they are based on incomplete information that does not allow for a full assessment of the whole person. Therefore a decision not to grant, or to withdraw Temporary access, does not indicate that a person will necessarily be found unsuitable to hold a security clearance by the AGSVA, even if AGSVA has identified concerns during the application for Temporary access. Subsequent investigation by AGSVA during the full security clearance process may identify mitigating factors or reveal new information.Key Definitions24. Australian Government Security Vetting Agency: AGSVA is a branch of the Defence Security and Vetting Service (DS&VS) that provides independent security clearance vetting services and advice to non-exempt government agencies (including Defence).25. MOPS Act staff: Staff employed by an Australian Government Minister under the Members of Parliament (Staff) Act 1984 (Cth).26. Ongoing access: Access to classified information or assets for longer than three months, or regular access for shorter periods constitutes Ongoing access. This requires an individual to have the appropriate security clearance and need-to-know.27. Temporary access: A temporary arrangement that in some circumstances provides limited access to security classified information to people who are yet to be issued with an appropriate security clearance. There are two types of Temporary access: Provisional access and Short Term access.28. Provisional access: A form of Temporary access that can be approved after a person submits all information required for a security clearance, but before the clearance is finalised to allow that person to access security classified information on a limited basis only.29. Short Term access: A form of Temporary access used where access to security classified information is required by a person who does not have the appropriate security clearance.30. Limited Higher Access (obsolete term): This term refers to an older form of Temporary access and should no longer be used, except when referring to old arrangements.31. Emergency Access (obsolete term): This term refers to an older form of Temporary access and should no longer be used, except when referring to old arrangements.Control 41.1	PAGE 7
Further Definitions32. Further definitions for common PSPF terms can be found in the Glossary.33. Definitions for common Defence administrative terms can be found in the Defence Instruction – Administrative Policy.Annexes and AttachmentsThis DSPF Control has no Annexes or Attachments.Document administrationIdentificationDSPF ControlTemporary Access to Classified Information and AssetsControl OwnerAssistant Secretary Security Policy and ServicesControl ImplementerAssistant Secretary ICT SecurityDSPF NumberControl 41.1Version31 July 2020Publication dateX Month 20XXType of controlEnterprise-wideReleasable toDefence and Defence IndustryGeneral Principle and Expected OutcomesTemporary Access to Classified Information and AssetsRelated DSPF Control(s)Assessing and Protecting Official Information Foreign Release of Official Information Defence Industry Security Program Personnel Security ClearanceIdentity SecurityPhysical Transfer of Information and Assets Physical SecurityAccess ControlSecurity Incidents and InvestigationsControl 41.1	PAGE 8
Version controlNote: A new row is added for each version to show the version history of this document.VersionDateAuthorDescription of changes12 July 2018AS SPSLaunch212 August 2019AS SPSTo reflect the appointment of ASICTS as Control Implementer for Significant and High risk ICT systems access.331 July 2020AS SPSProtective Marking update to align with PSPF; update of language to reflect Defence Admin PolicyControl 41.1	PAGE 9